# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - August 20, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas


## Minutes

**Minutes** by Scott McMillan (and Tim M)

### Last meeting minutes reviewed.

### Revisited ownership of output

The issue comes down to the question, who allocates memory for output objects?  Does this happen inside a method?  Or does the user own memory allocation for output objects.  For "easy mode" you don't want users to estimate the size needed to hold a result and allocate the memory.  But there are numerous algorithms where you call an LAGraph method inside an iterative control structure.   If you allocate space for the output objects each time a method is called, it could add a great deal of overhead.  We need a consistent for memory allocation of output objects.

We discussed the existing idiom where the methods take a pointer to `GrB_Vector` (for example) and the algorithm allocates the space and type by calling something like `GrB_Vector_new`.  If the vector was already allocated the reference to that other data will be lost.

We discussed an alternative where the `GrB_Vector` is set to `NULL` before calling the algorithm.  This approach was ultimately rejected.  As conflicting with other approaches.

We discussed an alternative where the 'GrB_Vector` is allocated outside of the algorithm and passed in.  Allocation would be performed according to the documentation of the algorithm and the vector would be passed by value (not pointer).  This approach is currently used by `IN/OUT` parameters.  It will also likely be used by many other expert mode algorithms (especially those focusing on high-performance).

### Shortest paths revisited

The single-source, single-desintation version has been removed from consideration for the "easy" mode.  It is unknown whether such a version is reasonable given the optimization 'nature' of the SSSP algorithm

The multi-source version (analogous to a batch mode BC algorithm) was also removed from consideration for the "easy" mode.

The only two versions that currently survive are:

General signature `GrB_Info LAGraph_ShortestPath_[...]`, where `[...]` might be:

* `SingleSource` (see the signature in [`LAGraph.h`](../LAGraph.h))
* `AllPairs`: expensive but it's a well-known linear algebra-based algorithm (Floyd–Warshall)

One issue raised by not resolved pertains to the stop condition on shortest path algorithms.   Since this is an optimization algorithm, it can get stuck.  Do we need to add an explicit stop condition?

A second issue with shortest path methods (especially for all-pairs); what do you return if there is no path?  We can't use aero since in a weighted graph you may have paths that sum to zero.  Do we return MAXINT?  Inf?  Something else?   We did not resolve this issue and will bring it up again later.

### Next up (again)

Reviewing the GAP / LDBC Graphalytics algorithms.
