# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - June 10, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [ ] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by Tim Mattson

**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

- [X] Let's get specific and talk about function signatures
    > We discussed the functions that exist in the LAGraph repository today.   The list includes betweenness centrality, single source shortest paths, ktruss, BFS, connected components, community detection by label propagation, Minimum spanning forest, page rank, strongly connected components, and triangle counting.  That's 10 functions
    >  It's time to work through them and come up with function signatures.  With specific signatures nailed down, we can have more productive discussions on the more expansive design issues.
    > Also ... note that in addition to the list of algorithm provided above, we need assessor functions for any opaque types and the set of utility functions
- [X] Let's work on an actual function signature
    > LAGraph_bc_batch4() is in good shape and is the right bc case to work with.  
    > We considered two modes for function signatures: and easy mode for the general user and an advanced mode.  In many cases the easy mode will turn around and call the advanced mode after setting up the computation.
    > We talked at length about polymorphism and even the right term for the concept.  To me, the key is having a single function name but distinct functions distinguished by their function signatures.  Based on experience with SuiteSparse running on everything from windows to Linux, Tim Davis pointed out that their is uneven support for that sort of polymorphism.  Hence, we really want the function names themselves to distinguish between cases.  Bummer.
- [X] LAGraph_BC()     .... easy mode

     LAGraph_Info LAGraph_BC       // vertex betweeness centrality, batch algorithm 
        (
             GrB_Vector *centrality,             // centrality(i): betweeness centrality of i
             const LAGraph_Graph A,           // input graph, A(i,j) is the edge (i,j)
             LAGraph_Context const CNTX    // a context parameter or even a descriptor to pass in
         )

- [X] LAGraph_BC()   .... advanced mode
   > The advanced mode gives one the option to pass in a set of source vertices.  It's not clear if these would be a LAGraph_vector object or a pointer to int with a second parameter for the number of source vertices.   We didn't discuss this point to conclusion
- [X] LAGraph_BC()   .... Discussion
   > The BC algorithm in normal usage selects a random set of vertices as the sources.  This means we need to think about pseudorandom numbers inside LAGraph.  As no self respecting algorithm designer would depend on the rand() function in C, we need to pull in a proper generator.  The right one to pull in is SPRNG from Mascagni at Florida State.  The details of the generator and the handling of the seed should be a build option on the LAGraph library.  We do not want to force the general user to worry about such things.
   > Another issue pertains to what we might want to store in the LAGraph_Graph type.  It's easy to do so in addition to the transpose of the matrix, we may want to keep row degree and column degree information (and perhaps other structural properties)
     
