# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 4, 2020 

## Attendees
- [x] David Bader
- [x] Tim Davis
- [x] James Kitchen
- [x] Scott Kolodziej
- [x] Roi Lipman
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [x] Scott McMillan
- [x] Jose Moreira

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by Tim Mattson

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [x] Report on the status of Travis/continuous-integration with LAGraph. Following the traffic from github, there has been a huge amount of activity.  I’m really impressed.  It would be good to brief the group on where you are at and what remains to be done on that front.
    > Gabor provided a summary: There were a number of issues in compiling GraphBLAS from source in the Travis builds. GraphBLAS would take too long to compile and cause a time out, and there was also C-specific code that prohibited building in a C++ context. These issues have been ironed out: A faster compile flag has been added, and the C-specific issues have been fixed/removed.

    > Related to this, the goal would be for us not to have to build GraphBLAS from source for every CI build - we would like pre-compiled binaries available via package managers or directly from GitHub.

- [ ] We need to setup the structure of the repository with a development branch and a release branch.  What else do we need to do to configure our repository for distribution to the “end-user” programmer community?
- [ ] At the GraphBLAS meeting this week, we discussed the list of GraphBLAS extensions Tim Davis provided.  We want to invite Tim Davis to join an upcoming GraphBLAS meeting so we can talk to him directly about these items.  Are there others from the LAGraph group who should be at that meeting?
- [x] A high level issue came up in today’s GraphBLAS meeting that the LAGraph group needs to consider.  Will LAGraph have its own graph type?  Or will LAGraph use the GraphBLAS types?  This is a key issue to help us divide functionality between the two libraries.
    > We spent most of the meeting debating this. Right now, the primary challenge is being able to query the matrix type. Not having this functionality in GraphBLAS may justify an LAGraph graph or matrix object.

    > While there was not a strong consensus, the current plan forward seems to be to move ahead using GraphBLAS objects. If type querying is rejected from the GraphBLAS API, we will need to reverse course and make our own type wrapper, but by default we want to stay as close to GraphBLAS as possible.

    > Related to this, we did agree that LAGraph algorithms should be "clean" and GraphBLAS library-agnostic, with code written using mostly GraphBLAS functions and LAGraph utilities (few if any #ifdefs). LAGraph utilities, on the other hand, can have #ifdefs and other "less clean" implementations that allow for extensions (e.g. GxB_select). These utilities should ideally not be simple wrappers for GraphBLAS functions (just use GraphBLAS then), but could be wrappers such that if an extension is available, use it, otherwise, provide an implementation.
- [ ] I am getting some pressure (in a good way) to provide guidance on the actual API we will define for LAGraph.  I’d really like these LAGraph meetings to shift priorities and talk about API design issues.   I think of this in terms of the rules we use to generate a function signature for inclusion in the library.    This means agreeing on a range of issues such as:
  - [ ] How do we handle errors?  Do we include an error flag as an argument to a function or as returned value?  We are currently returning a GrB_info value.  Do we need an LAgraph_info?  Does integration with Python favor one approach over the other?
  - [ ] Is there an LAGraph context? Or do we just used the GraphBLAS context?  Do we pass the context to each individual library routine (sort of like what we do when we call MPI routines)?
  - [ ] What rules do we use to generate a function name from the mathematical operation? 
  - [ ] Do we need a nonpoloymorphic interface as we have for the GraphBLAS?
  - [ ] Others?
