# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - August 20, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas


## Minutes

**Minutes** by Gabor Szarnyas

### Centrality algorithms (cont'd)

* There are many algorithms -> we define two functions `LAGraph_VertexCentrality` and `LAGraph_EdgeCentrality` and use an enum `kind` to pass whether we want to calculate betweenness, eigenvector, degree, pagerank (many variants with different parameters), etc.
* There are multiple types here (e.g., degree: int, betweenness: float) but this can be hidden under `GrB_Vector`.
* The current decision is to also contain the type in the enum argument, e.g., for betweenness centrality, `LAGR_BETWEENNESS_FP32` and `LAGR_BETWEENNESS_FP64` will allow the user to specify whether the output should be produced in 32-bit or 64-bit floats.
* The preference would be to have two separate enums `LAGraph_VertexCentrality_Type` or `LAGraph_EdgeCentrality_Type`.

### Discussion on GrB_Type

* Exposing `GrB_Type` is essential.
* The thinking in the GrB design API was that the (default) casting rules of the C programming language covers us.
* There's also no `GrB_EQUAL` operator due to the lack of a way to query `GrB_Type`. For example, if the user has two matrices (might be floats or ints), they have to tell the GrB implementation the types (because casting can change the results of equals, e.g., by losing the mantissa of the float).

### Ownership of output

The convention in LAGraph follows the GraphBLAS API, e.g., `*centrality` is uninitialized on input, the function initializes it (allocates memory) and returns it to the user.

### Degree

We had a discussion on how "sophisticated" we want to the `LAGraph_degree` function. Do we want to add an option filter out self-edges? Do we want to add an option to summarize edge weights (e.g., edges with weights -1, +1, +1, +1 would result in a degree of +2).

This discussion is loosely related to sanitization – in existing LAGraph functions, there is often a `sanitize` flag that, if set to `true`, results in a copy of the original matrix with changes to confirm the required input (e.g., by converting the matrix to `GrB_BOOL` and removing self-edges). However, in many cases, it would be preferable to compute the results without completing a complete (sanitized) copy of the original graph.

How should the function look like?

Approach 1:
* `LAGraph_Degree(*d, G, kind)` with an enum `kind` to specify whether it's an in-degree, out-degree, etc.

Approach 2:
* `LAGraph_Degree_in`
* `LAGraph_Degree_out`
* `LAGraph_Degree_...`

### Shortest paths

General signature `GrB_Info LAGraph_ShortestPath_[...]`, where `[...]` might be:

* `SingleSource` (see the signature in [`LAGraph.h`](../LAGraph.h))
* `SingleSourceSingleDestination`
* `MultiSource`
* `AllPairs`: expensive but it's a well-known linear algebra-based algorithm (Floyd–Warshall)

### Next up

Reviewing the GAP / LDBC Graphalytics algorithms.
