# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - June 10, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by Tim Mattson

**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

- [X] polymorphic types and function signatures
    > Windows Visual Studio does not support polymorphic functions at all in C.   Matlab is compiled on windows in visual studio C.  So a spec for LAgraph that requires polymorphic function signatures excludes a potentially important market for LAGraph.   You can use gcc with cygwin or even the intel compilers on windows to get around this problem.  But it doesn't matter since, as we state above, Matlab uses visual studio (as do countless other programmers working with Windows).
- [X] variable argument lists in function signatures
    > In C, you cannot query the number of arguments.  Variable argument lists must distinguish cases by argument types early in the list.   This is why you can't have a function that comes in a form without arguments and a form with arguments (as we found with the ill-fated GrB_wait() )
    > Consequently, we might want to add a suffix to all the function names.  For example, we could add a suffix "_adv" for the advanced mode.
    > It was also pointed out that in a well designed API, a knowledgeable user must be likely to guess the right arguments to any given function. That means rigid consistency across the API is critical.  This goal complicates distinguishing between functions by their argument lists alone.
- [X] What do we call the different modes
  > We don't know what we're going to call the different modes.  Suggestions include easy mode, Expert mode, advanced mode, or implementation mode (impl). That last one follows since in all likelihood, the simple/easy mode will call the advanced mode functions internally; suggesting that instead of "advanced" maybe they could be called "impl" mode.
  > We did not reach closure on what names to use for the two modes. 
  > But we did agree that we need to different name spaces distinguished by function names.  We'll just have to figure out those names later.
- [X] descriptors?
> Do we need a descriptor in LAgraph?   The cases form the GraphBLAS don't really apply.  We could have a few such as "Ignore edge weights" or "treat graph as undirected".
> One option is to have a descriptor on advanced mode functions but not on the basic or easy case.
> And that brought up an interesting conversation.  If we added a descriptor only for the advanced cases functions and if we provided that descriptor as the first argument, then we might just be able to use function polymorphism?
- [X] Function names
> It was suggested that we didn't need a different name/suffix for the advanced mode function.  They will always imply some algorithm variant that they implement.  We could just use that algorithm variant in the name. For example LAGraph_bc_sourced()
or LAGraph_bc_randomized()
> Based on the GAP benchmarking experiments, there are algorithm variants that just work better for different graphs so there is a reason to have different algorithms in the same library. It is still an open question on if we want to specify the algorithm variant with the name of the function?  Or do we want to put the algorithm selection in a descriptor?    The descriptor approach gives us the flexibility to add new algorithms over time without changing the function signature. It could be an enum or maybe even a string.

