# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - September 16, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

### Discussion on the proposed LAGraph error handling mechanisms

Scott's idea: how about returning a custom, LAGraph-specific error code for our calls, then the `GrB_Info` code in to the `LAGraph_Info` (which the user can decide to discard).

Tim M's point: it gets confusing if we have two overlapping ways of communicating an error. The API should provide a straightfoward/unambiguous way to communicate that the user did something that resulted in an error.

Conclusion: return an integer with the convention

* :white_check_mark: `info == 0`: ok
* :x: `info <  0`: error
* :warning: `info >  0`: warning

And a fixed-length `message`, which is preferably allocated once per thread.

In practice,  this might look like the following:

char message[LAGRAPH_MESSAGE_LENGTH];
int retVal;
retVal = LAGraph_method(output, input, &message);
if(retVal != 0) printf("you've got error %s\n",message);

### Testing

We need some way of testing LAGraph algorithms on small (but testing-wise interesting) graphs.

* Gabor will follow up on this through email regarding the framework.
* Testing something like a BFS tree is challenging but well studied (see the Graph500 and GAP benchmarks).
* Many algorithms such as community detection are non-deterministic.
  * Some level of sanity testing should be possible.
  * The suite of tests is just as valuable as the algorithm.

### Next up

* GAP/Graphalytics algorithms
* Notation
