# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - June 29, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas


## Minutes


**Minutes** by Gabor Szarnyas

## BFS

Tightening up BFS (see the latest `LAGraph.h`):

* The convention is that output handles set to `NULL` are not required to be computed.
* Observation: the `LAGraph_BreadthFirstSearch` can be implemented on top of `LAGraph_BreadthFirstSearch_Frontier` (Quite efficiently in some cases but it depends. We didn't discuss it further.)
* Discussion on whether to add `hops` to all `LAGraph_BreadthFirstSearch*` algorithms.
  * Suggestion: be conservative -- it's easier to add an argument later than to take it away.
  * Added a TODO `hops for all methods` in the code.
* Discussion on should `GrB_Vector vertex_mask` (and either a `bool vector_mask_complemented`+`bool vector_mask_structural` or a `GrB_Descriptor desc` descriptor to allow the use of its structure/complement) be added to the `LAGraph_BreadthFirstSearch_Frontier` function?
  * This would restrict the BFS to the nodes that are selected by the `vertex_mask`.
  * It would be useful extension but it might belong to the expert mode and not to easy mode.
  * In easy mode, it can be simulated with a filtering step before.

## Connected Components

* Weakly Connected Components vs. Strongly Connected Components?
  * Obviously makes no difference for undirected graphs. For a directed graph -> ?
* What if matrix A is unsymmetric but the graph is labeled as undirected?
* Sanity check: should be possible to turn this off (e.g., benchmarking), in which case it becomes the user's responsibility.

Options for returning the connected components:
* `GrB_Vector *components`, with the component ids for each of the vertices (even if we had a `GrB_Array`, this would be a `GrB_Vector`)
* `GrB_Matrix *Components`, a boolean k-by-n projection matrix (`C`). This can be converted using utility function that does a simple extraction step. This matrix can be used for contraction, e.g., to compute the component graph using (`C * G * C'`).
* `GrB_Matrix *Permutation`, a boolean n-by-n permutation matrix (`P`). Then `Gnew = P * G * P'` is block diagonal.

## Next up

* BC variants (exact/approximate, vertex/edge?):
   * do we need a random number generator or a random node sampler?
      * maybe it is out of scope
      * in any case, our algorithms should be deterministic (e.g., with a fixed seed) unless the user specifically asks for non-deterministic computation
