# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - April 22, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [ ] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by Scott Kolodziej

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] What is LAGraph?
    * Is it a lowish-level graph library that many interfaces and/or libraries will be built on?
        - Implementers become our primary stakeholders
        - Performance over user-friendliness. API can afford to be a little messy, since we will still have some sort of wrapper between us and a user.
    * **Is it a highish-level graph library that users will be able to use as a drop-in graph library?**
        - **C/C++ users become our primary stakeholders**
        - **User-friendliness is key. Users will not tolerate clunky/messy APIs.**
        > Of course we want both user-friendliness and performance. But, when in conflict, our focus is on user-friendliness of the C API.
- [X] LAGraph Levels Idea
    * Level 0 is GraphBLAS
    * Level 1 are LAGraph functions that (almost?) exclusively call GraphBLAS
        - Lots of input, lots of output. Ex: Connected components. Return number, vertex labels, etc.
    * Level 2 are LAGraph functions that (almost?) exclusively call LAGraph
        - Very concise input (few arguments), very concise output.
    > Above idea was panned, but alternative idea was popular:
    > Runtime parameter to determine level of checks:
    >  * Level 0 - no checks at all. Trust the programmer to satisfy all input requirements. "I want to go as fast as possible, don't even check the input flags."
    >  * Level 1 - raise error when parameter is checked and is found to be unknown. "I want to go fast! What properties do you need to know?"
    >  * Level 2 - run check or compute property if it is unknown, but trust input flags. "I know a few things about the input, but not everything. Here are some hints, but compute everything else."
    >  * Level 3 - run checks or compute properties no matter what. Do not trust input flags. "It just works."
