# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - June 10, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [ ] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Sarnyas


## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by Tim Mattson

**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

- [X] Questions presented but not fully resolved
    > What is the name of out LAGraph graph type?  LAGraph_graph?  graph_t?
    > For naming our functions, do we have a base name (LAGraph_bc) and a descriptor to select variants?  Or do we have distinctly named functions (LAGraph_bc_vertex, LAGraph_bc_edge)?  There was a preference for distinguishing the cases by function name.  This is important since the arguments might be completely different between cases.
- [X] Functions in LAGraph
    > Scott provided us with a nice spreadsheet that summarized the functions currently in LAGraph.  The purpose of this spread sheet was to help us have more concrete discussions as we move into the details of designing the API.  We didn't get very far in the list. We hit betweenness centrality and had a long conversation about the variants of this algorithm.  Here are just a few of the cases:
   > - Degree centrality
   > - Closeness centrality
   > - Edge centrality:  output a matrix with the number of shortest paths passing through each edge
   > - Vertex BC: output a vector with the number of shortest paths passing through a vertex
   > Edge centrality raises and interesting case.   The output is a value for each edge.  In a graphBLAS mindset, that would be a matrix which is how we represent a graph.  So should the output from edge centrality be a graph?  A list of tuples defining each edge and its centrality measure?  A sorted list of Tuples?  A graphBLAS object?  We did not reach final resolution ? though a strong subset of the group favored making it an LAGraph graph type and then we?d provide a separate function to pull out the ?top k? items from a matrix.
- [X] Coarsening and Expanding graphs
 > Another topic of discussion was on the need for functions to coarsen a graph (combine subsets of nodes together to form a representation of the graph with fewer vertices) and the inverse function to expand the graph.  This is used in algorithms that follow a sort of divide-and-conquer pattern ? coarsen until the graph is small enough for direct computation and then expand out to the original vertex set.   This is used, for example, in graph partitioning algorithms.
- [X] Homework
 > we need to come up with a full list of all the methods we want in the released version of LAGraph. We need this to keep our conversations grounded and move us to resolution on released artifact from all our meetings.
    
