# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 13, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ???

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] API discussion. How to we organize the library, and how do we present this to the user?
    > Need some kind of categorization. Utilities, expert/fast, easy, etc. Also, domains.
    > Don't make it too wordy. LAGraph_Utility_function_name is probably too long?
