# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - Month Day, Year

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ___

**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

We had an open agenda with a rambling meeting.   

We started by saying that we needed to stop turning this into a GraphBLAS meeting.   The work 
on LAGraph has exposed a number of issues the GraphBLAS group will need to deal with.  We
should keep sending issues to that group, but we need to move forward and work on the design
of an API for the LAGraph library (in C, C++ and Python).

We ended up discussing the idea of an LAGraph context, plus a range of random issues 
stretching across the API.


<<<LAGraph Context>>>

We could expect users to call Grb_init() and import the GraphBLAS context into LAGraph.  Or
do we want to wrap the Grb_init()  and have our own LAGraph_init()?

In the GraphBLAS group, as we consider more advanced uses of the GraphBLAS, we might need
to expand the concept of a context.  Basically, when you move to parallel and distributed computing 
we need the context to carry more information than just "blocking vs. nonblocking". You need a 
way to deal with MPI  communicators or subsets of threads, for example.

The GraphBLAS group is leaning towards passing a context object to every method in the GraphBLAS.  
We could adopt that approach in LAGraph.   LAGraph_init() returns a context handle which we'd pass 
to every LAGraph function.   

Tim Davis really liked that approach and suggested we start with that approach as
we move forward.  We can remove it later if we find we don't need it (at least up until the 1.0 release).

So where do we put the handle to a context in the LAGraph functions.  

Tim Mattson suggest putting the handle at the end of every argument list.  Putting the handle
at the end of the list, however, can impact use of polymorphism.   If you have a function that has 
multiple polymorphic forms and the number of arguments changes, it can be tough if you put 
the context at the end.

Tim Davis pointed out that he has  polymorphic code for GrB_assign.  It works, but it is really ugly. 

If you want to have a default rule which would let people call without providing a context, its best 
if you put it at the beginning.

We wondered if where we put the handle has any impact on interfacing to Matlab or python.  The
feeling of the group was that it didn't.  

We converged on a number of decisions summarized later.


<<<< Random discussion points (it was an open agenda after all) >>>>

Indices in LAGraph should support various integer sizes.  This would be tricky but we may want to
avoid the approach taken in GraphBLAS where we defined the index type to use.  GraphBLAS assumes
int64.  This can be a real problem with Grb_extract and GrB_assign, for example.   Fixing the integer 
type for  indices was an odd move by the GraphBLAS team since it breaks opacity with these user
visible arrays.   

Arguments to LAGraph functions should use GrB objects and therefore support Opaque types.  The
group seemed to appreciate this perspective, but there are concerns about whether we really want to 
expose our users to the fact that GraphBLAS sit underneath LAGraph. 

David Bader raised a point about the return objects from GraphBLAS and if you can get lists of values 
rather than a graph object?   He said he could send us a specific case to explain what he needs.   He 
will provide a couple motifs that he encounters that exposes what he is looking for.  He sees this as 
important for much larger scale problems on large distributed memory machines. 

As the conversation roamed, it came out that perhaps what we need is some concept of a 
view ? allowing users to operate on a subset of a graph without materializing objects for that subset.  
This is a topic we'll want to consider at a future date.


Decisions:

1.  We will pass an LAgraph context to every library function.
2. The LAGraph handle will be passed in as the first argument
3.  We will support a default case with a default handle (LAGRAPH_WORLD?)
2.  Objects in the argument list to an LAGraph function must all belong to the same context.
3. LAGraph will assume and therefore require presence of GraphBLAS.

