# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - June 22, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [ ] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas


## Minutes


**Minutes** by Gabor Szarnyas

Main activity: drafting `LAGraph.h` by Tim D

### LAGraph_graph

First, define the `LAGraph_graph` data structure.
* See Tim's code.
* The graph property weighted/unweighted is important because one can have an unweighted graph that is INT64.

### BFS

* Naming convention: `LAGraph_BreadthFirstSearch_variant`
* Some of the variants could be handled by passing a NULL as an argument but we are better off adding separate functions for them.
* The basic BFS in easy mode would be just BFS from a single source but still there are two variants: levels and parents.
* Scott M: the easy mode if often just a dispatch, e.g., here it calls the algoritm that computes levels only, parents only or both.
* Should we allow the use to specify the maximum number of levels? Not here.
* `LAGraph_BreadthFirstSearch_Frontier` can be useful in problems such as MIS: run one step of BFS from the set of nodes and if the resulting frontier is disjoint, the set of nodes is indeed independent.

* Discussion on style for passing variable-size arrays:
    * `GrB_Vector source` vs. `GrB_Index *sources` and `size_t nsource`
    * C does not have an `std::array` which would be very useful here.
    * Consensus: it's unlikely that the list of source vertices comes as a `GrB_Vector` from the outside.
    * Tim D: Passing a dense `GrB_Vector` with **index values** (e.g., for 3 source nodes, we have a 3-length vector with the node indices) could be beneficial, it's very cheap to construct even with `setElement` (no `build` needed).
* Usage of `GrB_Index` and `uint64_t` should correspond to their conceptual meaning, e.g., the number of hops is a `uint64_t` value.

* The "transitive reachability" could be benificial as it does slightly less work.
    * Scott M: this is useful for max-flow. In that case, its unidirectional traversal and the parents along the path are needed.
    * Gabor: if its only about reachability, it can be implemented with a bidirectional search and the result is just a boolean.

    We currently deem these transitive reachability algorithms not so essential.

* Return the DAG of the traversal.
    * This is an advanced algorithm.

* There are many other variants of BFS.

## Arguments

* How do we state that the BFS traversal does not limit the number of hops? By setting `nhops` to `0` vs. `UINT64_MAX` vs. `NONE` (a defined value)?
* `NULL` vs. `GrB_NULL`: 
  * Slight preference for `NULL`
  * Up for further discussion

## Next up

* connected components
* BC variants (exact/approximage, vertex/edge?):
   * do we need a random number generator or a random node sampler?
      * maybe it is out of scope
      * in any case, our algorithms should be deterministic (e.g., with a fixed seed) unless the user specifically asks for non-deterministic computation
