# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - April 22, 2020

## Attendees
- [ ] David Bader
- [ ] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [ ] Scott Kolodziej
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [ ] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [ ] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by Scott Kolodziej

**Minutes** by ____

- [ ] What is LAGraph?
    * Is it a lowish-level graph library that many interfaces and/or libraries will be built on?
        - Implementers become our primary stakeholders
        - Performance over user-friendliness. API can afford to be a little messy, since we will still have some sort of wrapper between us and a user.
    * Is it a highish-level graph library that users will be able to use as a drop-in graph library?
        - C/C++ users become our primary stakeholders
        - User-friendliness is key. Users will not tolerate clunky/messy APIs.
- [ ] ...
