# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - June 10, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [ ] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [ ] Gabor Sarnyas


## Minutes


**Minutes** by Tim Mattson

- [X] Function names ... Decisions  
   >  We discussed the topic of function signatures last week but we did not reach closure.   This week, we are closing on these issues.
   > - We will use abbreviations in function names.  So it will be "LAGraph_bc" rather than "LAGraph_betweenness_centrality". Likewise for BFS (Breadth First Search) and PR (page rank).
   > - We agree that functions should be distinguished by name not by argument lists.  This will let us support compilers that do not handle polymorphism.  If we make the names descriptive, this will also improve the "understandability" of library.  For example, we use the names LAGraph_bc_vertex and LAGraph_bc_edge rather than distinguish between the cases by the fact one returns a vector and the other a matrix.
    
- [X] Data Types in LAGraph
  > Last week we discussed the return types from functions.  When the returned value is Graph, the decision is easy.  The return type is of course an LAGraph graph.  How do we handle vectors and matrices?  Consider Edge Centrality.  It returns a value for each edge in the graph.  That is a matrix.  Do we return it as a Lagraph_graph, a Grb_matrix, or a pointer to an array in the C programming language?
  
   > After much discussion we decided on the GrB types (GrB_vector and GrB_matrix).  A big part of this decision was the simplification it offers the implementor.  Instead of long case statements at the beginning of each functions to cover all the type cases, you have have one simple signature with the GrB opaque types.  This makes for a really clean interface.
   
   >  This does mean we'll need more utility functions to help users query the output objects.  For example, for vertex_PR we'll want a utility function that sorts an input GrB_array and outputs a pointer to a basic C array with the top K ranks.  We'll need to think of the queries users will have of matrix types (such as the matrix returned from BC_edge) and provide corresponding plain-old-C types (input a GrB_matrix and return tuples for the top K edges).  
   
   > the conversation then strayed into the ongoing issues of import and export functions.  We'll need a function to import a GrB_matrix into an LAGraph graph.  

  > There are a few complications.  Sometimes you want a list of graphs (think of connected components).  How do we cover this case using the matrix and vector types from GraphBLAS?

- [X] GrB_scalar
  > If we return a vector, then we should return a GrB_vector.  Do we need a scalar GrB_scalar?   Note that by using the GrB types, we avoid the explosion of non polymorphic function signatures corresponding to all the different types of objects.

  > Erik Welch emphasized that he wants a GrB_Scalar in the graph BLAS.  The benefits to the implementor is just too strong to not add a GrB_scalar type that LAGraph can exploit.   I will bring this up with the full GraphBLAS spec group.  Eric had other issues he wanted to discuss with the GraphBLAS group.  He will send me email with that list of issues.
 
   > During the discussion, the Anaconda folks mentioned their recently announced project called metagraph.   The goal to metagraph is to have a python interface that wraps many different libraries.  This would let them have a single interface to multiple different graph algorithm libraries.   So they have been thinking about what are the basic types across different graph packages.  This is important as they construct wrappers around these packages and work out a coherent way to expose these to users.


- [X] Homework
   > Our next meeting is July 15.  We'll skip the next meeting (on July 8).
  
   > At our next meeting, everyone should show up with their own version of what you want the easy mode LAGraph.h to be.  We can start with the spreadsheet that scott sent us (LAGraph_signature_survey.xlsx).
     
