# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 20, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ???

**Minutes** by Scott McMillan

- [X] Does LAGraph have to be built on top of GraphBLAS?
    > In short, yes.  That is the purpose of LAGraph
    > The opaque objects at the heart of LAGraph are "graphs" not "matrices".  This is  in recognition of the fact that properties/features of the objects are specific to Graphs even though they are built on top of the more general GraphBLAS matrices.
- [X] Is LAGraph "BLOCKING"?
    > In short, yes...to start. But GraphBLAS underneath could be NON-BLOCKING
    > Basically LAGraph function performs a GrB_wait(..) on every output GraphBLAS object that comes out of the function.
- [X] Importing and exporting GrB matrices into/outof of LAGraph graph objects
    > Pull and matrix out, mess with it, and insert it back in will require a GrB_wait to be called on the GrB matrix, but all the properties are also invalidated
    > Pulling it out should be destructive to LAGraph object, and constructing a new object will the
    > What if there are multiple matrices inside LAGraph object?  Export everything.
    > Should we just export all of the data objects and destroy the LAGraph object.  Construct new LAGraph object with various properties when you want to use in LAGraph functions again.
- [X] Concurrency
   > we discussed how LAGraph functions interact when called on different threads.  This took up a fair amount of time.  The sense of the group ... this is a complex issues and we have not solved it yet. This is still being hotly discussed inside the GraphBLAS group.  However, Tim Davis emphasized that he felt there must be a GrB_wait(obj) before an object can be safely shared between threads.
   > There was a discussion about zombies and whether they had to be resolved (i.e. written back into the core matrix) before being shared between threads.  Tim D said they needed to be.  Tim M pointed out that resolving zombies is a safe approach to take, but other systems (the TileDB array storage engine, for example) did not feel the need to resolve their "zombies" before sharing an object between threads.  You just must assure that the zombies are in a data structure that is shared along with the object.  Tim D pointed out that doing so would require use of concurrent data structures in the core implementation of GraphBLAS objects and that was too complicated to tolerate.
- [X]  Decisions and non-decisions
    > We agreed that LAGraph is blocking, LAGraph objects are opaque, we will provide accessor functions to members of the type.
    > We agreed that the GraphBLAS inside LAGraph functions may be non-blocking but in the nonblocking case, GrB_wait(obj) must be called on relevant objects before exit from the function.
    > We DID NOT agree on LAGraph_init() and if GrB_init() is called inside or outside LAGraph_init()
    > We agreed that one GrB_object can not belong to more than one LAGraph at the same time.
     