# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - April 15, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [X] Michel Pelletier
- [ ] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ___

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] LAGraph Matrix object discussion
    > Should the object be opaque? If we make it opaque, we can make changes to its structure later without breaking implementations down the road.
