# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 25, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ___

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] Should we have a blocking/non-blocking mode?
    > More discussion regarding blocking/non-blocking mode in LAGraph.
    > - Have LAGraph utilities that import/export CSC, CSR, and similar transparent formats into GraphBLAS objects.
    > - Wrap LAGraph algorithm functions with the above import/export utilities to create an "easy" mode. This enables user-friendly versions of the algorithm functions that look like high-level, pure C graph algorithms (e.g. CSC format C arrays -> LAGraph Easy Betweenness Centrality -> C array).
    > - We still have "core" LAGraph algorithms that accept and return GraphBLAS objects. These functions would return GraphBLAS objects that may be unfinished/deferred.
- [ ] How do we handle errors? Do we include an error flag as an argument to a function or as returned value? We are currently returning a GrB_info value. Do we need an LAgraph_info? Does integration with Python favor one approach over the other?
- [ ] Is there an LAGraph context? Or do we just used the GraphBLAS context? Do we pass the context to each individual library routine (sort of like what we do when we call MPI routines)?
- [ ] What rules do we use to generate a function name from the mathematical operation?
- [ ] Do we need a nonpoloymorphic interface as we have for the GraphBLAS?
