# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - September 9, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

### Discussion on the proposed LAGraph error handling mechanisms

Certain properties (such as negative weight cycles) could be computed and cached on the graph. With careful design, this could be set in an atomic way.

Discussion on the second option:

> Have `LAGraph_Info` which is a superset of `GrB_Info`.

* Scott's concern: is one set of error codes going to cover all the algorithms?
* Tim D.: agreed that this is a problem. And also, in some cases, an algorithm might need more than an enum for error message. But in those cases, that can be the output enum. So the `LAGraph_Info` which subsumes `GrB_Info` would go a long way for most problems.

Discussion on the fourth option:

> Every LAGraph function could have an `LAGraph_Info *info` argument which solves most of the problems but requires +1 arguments.

* This could wrap a `GrB_Info` (but this is probably repetitive), an algorithm-specific error code (for the specific error such as 'negative-length cycles') and a string (is the string arbitrary length and if so, who frees it?).

* Is it for all algorithms or just algorithms that need specialized error codes?

* What if it is an input/output argument and it's created on the stack and passed by the user?

* The [`LAGRAPH_OK()`](https://github.com/GraphBLAS/LAGraph/blob/a2b7688eb2f06784c6b860bf71a782a5e209a63e/Include/LAGraph.h#L435) macro already does something similar. See also the [`LAGRAPH_TRY_CATCH()`](https://github.com/GraphBLAS/LAGraph/blob/a2b7688eb2f06784c6b860bf71a782a5e209a63e/Include/LAGraph.h#L421-L428) macro.

Design question: who are we writing the errr messages for?

* Both the developer and the user (e.g., the negative weight cycle). The developer errors are mostly GrB_Info errors and the user error are mostly LAGraph_Info errors. (Not 100% but this is the case in the overwhelming majority of the time.)

Discussion on the third option:

> Have `LAGraph_Info struct` with a message (`char message [128]`). This has some overhead due to `memcpy`-ing the message all the time gets expensive when performed repeatedly in an incremental-style algorithm.

This is a nice option but it has performance issues if the algorithm is invoked a lot of times. (BLAS has this problem and vendors work around it differently with non-portable solutions.)

:warning: If there's an error code but no message, the first byte of the `message` should be cleared.

Scott's point: the two sets of errors are quite different and it's not trivial to untangle them. We should not return `GrB_SUCCESS` plus a LAGraph error -- at the very least, it should be `GrB_NO_VALUE`.

You could also pass a 'performance warning' as part of the LAGraph 'error' object.

Tim D: it's a realistic scenario that LAGraph and GraphBLAS are going to be used together, similarly to LAPACK and BLAS. So if the error codes are 'compatible' that might make these libraries easier to use.

Does the `LAGraph_Info` object came as the first argument or as the last?

Convergence? The third option (algorithm-specific error object) seems best. See [`LAGraph.h`](../LAGraph.h#L311).

### Misc

Threading model: LAGraph should be trivially thread-safe.
