# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - April 8, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ___

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] Discussion about structure of LAGr_Matrix object
    > Should include some kind of information about the matrix. Allow users to specify this information directly (no opacity).
    > Concerns about packing too much information into this object. Vertex weights probably need to be a separate vector object. Matrix transpose probably does, too. Limit these properties to descriptions/properties of the matrix.
- [X] What properties should be included in the LAGr_Matrix object?
    > Yes/probably: Symmetry, diagonal, cycles
    > What about user-defined properties? Very useful in application-level, but properties can be very specific to domain area. Agreed that these properties are useful, and we need a method of communicating these properties, but perhaps not in the LAGr_Matrix object.
- [X] Should the LAGr_ object represent a matrix or a graph?
    > General consensus is it should be an LAGr_Matrix.
    > May need some way to communicate whether this matrix object represents an adjacency, incidence, or bipartite graph (or other...?).
