# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - December 2,  2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

Minutes taken by Tim Mattson.  I apologize if I made any mistakes on the list of attendees.  I composed the list by memory following our meeting

### Moving to an official release

The graph community is moving past us.  We are taking too long to get something out there that anyone can download and use.  Benchmarking projects are proceeding without us since we don't have software anyone can download and use.  We will slip into irrelevance if we don't get moving.

We discussed how long it would take for us to offer a first release of LAGraph.  The feeling was it would take two months.   That means we should try to have this release done by the beginning of February.    The group committed to hitting this deadline.   We need to complete the following between now and February.

* What functions will go in the first release?  We agreed that the methods from the GAP benchmark suite will be covered.   We will add others too such as those in the LDBC or perhaps the Graph Challenge.   We need to be careful, however, that we do not add so many functions that we miss our deadline.

* We need documentation which includes: (1) doxygen or some other system tied to the code, (2) A user guide, adn (3) a contributors guide.

* Marketting is reality so we need  a paper for GrAPL.   Scott will be talking about LAGraph at a SIAM symposium as well.  

We need to plan for these documents now so they are ready when the software is.  It is best if someone who is not writing the code leads on the documentation efforts (which means I suspect Tim Mattson will need to play a key role in creating this documentation).

### Is this generic GraphBLAS or do we include SuiteSparse extensions?

We discussed this topic and agreed that we needed a pure graphBLAS version and a version that uses extensions in the SuiteSparse  library.    We need both. Hopefully, however, we can support both options from one code base using ifdefs.


### Error codes returned

We agreed a while back,  for the error codes, values less than zero are error conditions, values greater than zero are warnings, and values equal to zero are sucessful.

Different algorithm implementations are free to define their own error codes as long as they follow the basic rule.

How do LAGraph return codes interact with GraphBLAS return codes?  It is not clear.  One approach is that we pick a range (say -100 to +100) and leave those reserved for graphBLAS.
