# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - September 30, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [X] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

### Brief review 

* breadth-first search variants
* connected components
  * weak/strong
  * return communities
* centrality framework
  * vertex centrality
  * betweenness centrality
  * etc.
* shortest paths
  * single-source shortest paths
  * all-pairs shortest paths

Takeaway: unify the naming for `hops` vs. `levels` (we currently use `hops` to denote the maximum number of hops in SSSP).

### Algorithms

#### Triangle count

LAGraph currently uses an integer to denote the approach used.

In easy mode, we can just get the graph and return the number of triangles.

#### Degrees and transpose

Idea from Tim D:  

* Tim D: many algorithms need the vertex degrees, we could add it to LAGraph_Graph
* Scott: from an application's point of view, you may need this for an algorithm, then you may not and you would need to free that up.
* Tim M: for these optional O(n)/O(m) storage parameters, we can use an environment variable to set whether we want to optimize for performance or memory. This is easy for the users as well. This is the approach used by OpenMP and these internal control variables. If we allow algorithms to compute these on different threads, race conditions appear easily. Defining our memory model is asking for trouble.
* Tim D's recommendation: allow the user to do these explicitly.

Agreement: the user can call these explicitly with methods that take the LAGraph_Graph as input and output. These will compute the degrees and transpose.

Regarding the graph properties, the user can set them to `yes`, `no`, `no idea`.

Pointwise (vertex-wise) triangle count: we could put it under another algorithm, and if we do, we should put it under another algorithm where we get it for "free". This would be the LCC (local clustering coefficient) algorithm, which computes the LCC values as #triangles/#wedges for each node.

#### Deletes

Roi Lipman: Related question - how does a user delete vertices and edges?

David Bader: the workflow is also important, how do the changes arrive, what are we looking for in the output in the algorithm?

### Next up

* More GAP/Graphalytics algorithms
