# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - September 2, 2020

## Attendees
- [ ] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [ ] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

### Discussion on notation

We should converge towards a common pseudocode in LaTeX.
* Tim D: It would be great if you could type it in ASCII so that's it's similar to the LaTeX-based formula.
* How to represent the "replace semantics" in a mask?
* How to differentiate structure and value masks (e.g., `<M.S>` and `<M>`)?

### Agenda

Reviewing the GAP / LDBC Graphalytics algorithms.

### Shortest path algorithms

Do we want to have a condition for maximum number of iterations?

Tim D: The easy mode doesn't really need such an option, it should run the algorithm as long as needed.

Discussion on negative edge weights: what should it do? Should it produce `GrB_INVALID_OBJECT`?

Quick detour to GrB errors codes in SuiteSparse:GraphBLAS:
* 0/1 (`GrB_SUCCESS`/`GrB_NO_VALUE`) are not really errors (however, see p33 of the C API spec v1.3, where `GrB_NO_VALUE` is classified as an API error),
* the ones between 2 and 9 are API errors,
* the ones between 10 and 13 are execution errors.

Currently, the closest one is `GrB_INVALID_OBJECT`.

Lots of questions popped up -- What is the semantics of a graph with a negative cycle? Is it a property of a graph? Is `GrB_Info` enough or do we need `LAGraph_Info`?

Main alternatives:

* Use `GrB_Info` and return `GrB_NO_VALUE` (e.g., in the presence of a negative-weight cycle). This is not expressive enough to return the error message.
* Have `LAGraph_Info` which is a superset of `GrB_Info`.
* Have `LAGraph_Info struct` with a message (`char message [128]`). This has some overhead due to `memcpy`-ing the message all the time gets expensive when performed repeatedly in an incremental-style algorithm.
* Have an `LAGraph_report(G)` method that returns the error string. Has to be thread-safe -- this introduced similar problems than the global `GrB_error` did.
  * It's also problematic when 2 LAGraph calls want to use `G` at the same time. This is more powerful, it can e.g., return the negative cycle.
  * It is difficult to put the error to `G` because it is the input in most cases.
  * Alternative would be to put the error message in (one of) the outputs? But we cannot put an error in a GraphBLAS object such as a `GrB_Vector`.
* Every LAGraph function could have an `LAGraph_Info *info` argument which solves most of the problems but requires +1 arguments.
