minutes/2020-06-03.md, before:

# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 20, 2020

## Attendees
- [ ] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ???

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] API and Algorithms Discussion
    > Fundamental issue emerging: What information do we provide to algorithms? What information is needed?
    > Are properties discoverable? Some are (symmetry), others are not (symmetric matrix with lower triangular portion provided)
    > "Easy button" - we want to have to provide only minimal information (few arguments). "Expert mode" - we may have a lot of information transfer (lots of arguments).
- [X] Easy vs Expert Modes
    > It's becoming increasingly apparent that there is a VAST gulf of separation between the easy mode and expert mode. Expert mode requires a lot of information, especially if performance is important. Easy mode should remain user-friendly, and we should not expect the user to have to understand or specify lots of information.
    > How do we reconcile this?

Commit message:

Minutes for 6/3/20: blocking/nonblocking, importing/exporting GrB_Matrix.

minutes/2020-06-03.md, after:

# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 20, 2020

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ???

**Minutes** by Scott McMillan

- [X] Does LAGraph have to be built on top of GraphBLAS?
    > In short, yes.  That is the purpose of LAGraph
- [X] Is LAGraph "BLOCKING"?
    > In short, yes...to start. But GraphBLAS underneath could be NON-BLOCKING
    > Basically LAGraph function performs a GrB_wait(..) on every output GraphBLAS object that comes out of the function.
- [X] Importing and exporting GrB matrices into/outof of LAGraph graph objects
    > Pull and matrix out, mess with it, and insert it back in will require a GrB_wait to be called on the GrB matrix, but all the properties are also invalidated
    > Pulling it out should be destructive to LAGraph object, and constructing a new object will the
    > What if there are multiple matrices inside LAGraph object?  Export everything.
    > Should we just export all of the data objects and destroy the LAGraph object.  Construct new LAGraph object with various properties when you want to use in LAGraph functions again.
