# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - Month Day, Year

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [ ] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [X] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [X] Michel Pelletier

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ___

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] Should we have a blocking/non-blocking mode?
    > In short, no. LAGraph is assumed to operate in blocking mode. Within LAGraph, there can be plenty of exploitation of GraphBLAS blocking/non-blocking, but LAGraph will not have a separate blocking/non-blocking state.
- [X] Should we have an asynchronous mode?
    > Potentially in the future, but not at first. We may, in the future, add asynchronous versions of LAGraph functions with slightly different (a few added characters, like \_async) function signatures.
- [X] How do we handle errors? Do we include an error flag as an argument to a function or as returned value? We are currently returning a GrB_info value. Do we need an LAgraph_info? Does integration with Python favor one approach over the other?
    > Generally, GraphBLAS errors are pretty good, but LAGraph algorithms will have algorithm-specific errors as well.
- [ ] Is there an LAGraph context? Or do we just used the GraphBLAS context? Do we pass the context to each individual library routine (sort of like what we do when we call MPI routines)?
- [ ] What rules do we use to generate a function name from the mathematical operation?
- [ ] Do we need a nonpoloymorphic interface as we have for the GraphBLAS?
