# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - May 6, 2020

## Attendees
- [ ] David Bader
- [ ] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [X] Scott Kolodziej
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [ ] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch

## Agenda and Minutes

**Agenda** by ???

**Minutes** by Scott Kolodziej

- [X] API namespace and function signature discussion
    > No namespaces in C, so what prefix should we use for function signatures? LAGraph_, LAG_, LAGr_, LG_?
    > Change name of library entirely (LAGraph -> GraphPACK?)
