# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 22,  2021

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [X] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

Minutes taken by Scott McMillan.  I apologize if I made any mistakes on the list of attendees.  I composed the list by memory following our meeting

### Moving to an official release

We discussed the organization of the repository to prepare for upcoming official release.

Decisions made:
* A branch called "stable" will be created with a placeholder README.md (with comment that release will happen in the next few months), LICENSE and contributor files
* The current master branch will be renamed "develop"
* On the develop branch, we will
  * copy LAGraph.h to experimental (temporary)
  * rename LAGraph2.h to LAGraph.happen
  * move the contents of Experimental2 to Source
* We still need to figure out what to do with the rest of the repo.

### GrAPL paper

We also discussed the LAGraph paper for GrAPL.  Gabor and Tim M. are going to take a pass.  The rest will review before next meeting.

