# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - April 7, 2021

## Attendees
- [X] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [X] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [X] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

Minutes taken by Gabor Szarnyas.

### LAGraph refactoring

Scott and Erik are working on the refactoring on the `reorg` branch. This will become the `stable` branch.

There is some cruft left from benchmarking exercises. They currently surveyed the algorithms in the GAP benchmark, the other algorithms (`Experimental` directory) were not yet surveyed.

The goal is to be able to compile (a variant) without SuiteSparse extensions.
We are targeting GraphBLAS v1.3.0 as v2.0 has not yet been released yet.

Scott is working on a clean & idiomatic CMake setup.

Gabor suggested removing the `git` history because there is an excessive amount of files, mostly input and output files (matrices, logs, etc.). However, this should be done in a way that does not affect the releases. ([This seems to be doable.](https://www.reddit.com/r/git/comments/ja0fsq/does_deleting_git_tags_cause_unmerged_history_to/g8mvwl8/))

Scott proposes to move the type into `LAGraph_Graph` and every graph object will have its type.
