# LAGraph Working Group Meeting Minutes - March 8,  2021

## Attendees
- [ ] David Bader
- [X] Tim Davis
- [ ] James Kitchen
- [ ] Roi Lipman
- [X] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Jose Moreira
- [X] Michel Pelletier
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Gabor Szarnyas

## Minutes

Minutes taken by Tim Mattson.  I apologize if I made any mistakes on the list of attendees.  I composed the list by memory following our meeting

### Moving to an official release

Here is the list of activities we MUST do in order to create our first official release of LAGraph

* Write LAGraph code using SuiteSparse GraphBLAS including extensions

* Code Review LAGraph code using SuiteSparse GraphBLAS including extensions

* Write LAGraph code using official GraphBLAS API methods only

* Code Review of LAGraph code using GraphBLAS API methods only

* Write the user guide for LAGraph

* Write the specification for LAGraph

* develop test suite: (1) unit tests, and (2) a performance regression test suite (perhaps based on GAP benchmarks)

* Clean up github site for public release.

I need to full group to look over this list and make sure we aren't missing anything.   Then we need volunteers for each item.

Note that it would be good to have an automated test framework so we test code checked in each day.   Gabor has setup some
automated testing using Github actions.  We need to look into this further.

